33 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
EXECUTIVES IN FOCUS
EXECUTIVES IN FOCUS 		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   34
The company’s vision is to create better 
living 
conditions 
for 
people 
every 
day and its key areas of technology 
include heat transfer, separation and 
fluid handling. Alfa Laval products are 
recognized  throughout the world today 
with sales in more than 100 countries. 
Alfa Laval came to India in 1937 and 
has been a key player in several Indian 
segments 
including 
pharmaceutical, 
oil and gas, energy, steel and metal, 
sugar, food processing, pulp and paper, 
distillery, edible oil processing, brewing, 
starch, effluent handling, inorganic and 
the marine industry. 
Mr. Anantha Padmanabhan has been 
working with Alfa Laval for almost 35 
years. After leaving India to manage 
the Middle East and African regions of 
the company in 1991, he returned to be 
appointed as the Managing Director of 
Alfa Laval (India) Limited and Cluster 
President for India, Middle East and 
Africa.
 “It was a dramatic change,” he says when 
he came back to India from abroad.
 “It was a great opportunity for me and 
even Alfa Laval India changed a lot in 
these years in terms of its competent 
manufacturing 
capability, 
its 
reach 
and its presence. That is what the best 
experience was for me when coming back 
to India. I could do something different 
from what I had learned outside the 
country.”
Alfa Laval’s range of products can 
be found in anything related to the 
manufacturing industry. With a huge 
investment in R&D, there are at least 25 
to 30 product launches every year.
 “We have a presence in everything 
ranging from capital equipment till 
nuclear power plants. We have core 
products 
and 
engineering 
systems 
and plans which cover the entire 
structure. But being a capital equipment 
company, the growth and development 
of the company, up to an extent, is our 
connected economic growth in the 
country. I am a sworn believer that any 
progressive company should grow faster 
than the economy. That is the way the 
company and its people will grow and 
that is how the development will happen 
in the organization. So there are plenty 
of opportunities in this country even 
during these difficult times.”
2019 was a difficult year for the economy, 
he states. The first two years after being 
appointed were very good, but in 2019 
the economy started going southwards. 
Despite that, they were able to deliver 
positive growth for the company. 
 “2020 is a tougher year but we hope 
that we do better than the economy. But 
if you look at the future, the future is 
tremendous. There are a lot of fantastic 
opportunities out there.”  
Delving 
into 
their 
key 
business 
divisions
The company is a major player in the 
food processing industry in the country 
for both core products and engineered 
systems. 
Other 
industries 
include 
biotechnology 
and 
pharmaceutical 
industries where they supply critical 
electric plants including equipment used 
for vaccine processing. Besides these, 
the general manufacturing industry, 
chemical 
industry, 
infrastructure-
related industries and the alternate 
power industry are areas where the 
company is expecting growth.
 “Another area where I expect to see an 
acceleration of growth is the defense 
industry. We supply critical equipment 
to the aerospace and defense industry.”
The company is truly flag-waving 
in the sense that they have been 
manufacturing everything in India for 
Manufacturing 
Locally, Acting 
Globally:
Alfa Laval (India) Limited
Words by: The Executives India
Alfa Laval is a Swedish company that has been a supplier of high-quality 
products since 1883. 
Mr. Anantha Padmanabhan
(Managing Director)
Alfa Laval (India) Limited

--- PAGE BREAK ---
35 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
EXECUTIVES IN FOCUS
EXECUTIVES IN FOCUS 		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   36
the last 80 years. Due to past regulations, 
the company had an option to leave the 
country and opted to stay and continue 
manufacturing in India.
 
 “During those days we were not a 
private limited company, we were only 
a 40% owned company of a group, but 
we still managed to play a major role. 
For example, if you look at the White 
Revolution which took place back then, 
related to milk processing, we played 
a key role in bringing international 
technology 
into 
that 
area. 
From 
manufacturing the equipment over here 
till its execution in India itself. As of 
today, we are manufacturing in India for 
our country, but depending on the year, 
anything between 30-40% of what we 
make each year is exported worldwide.
They also have an engineering centre in 
India for global food processing projects. 
India is considered to be a huge market 
and he seems to be very optimistic about 
the Indian market.
Differences between India, the Middle 
East and Africa
Mr. Anantha Padmanabhan took the 
helm as MD, Alfa Laval India in 2017. 
Speaking about his experience in these 
distinct zones, he says there are a lot of 
common things as well as differences. 
There is a very large population of 
Indians mostly in the technical field, 
he observes, in both the Middle East 
and Africa. Over the last few years, the 
quality of the Indian manufacturing 
industry, i.e., their products have been 
exceptional in the market.
 “We also undertake engineering projects 
from India for the Middle East and 
Africa in the food and vegetable oil 
processing industries amongst other 
industries. The projects are engineering 
and manufactured over here and then 
exported to these countries. From a 
business point of view, it is different.
Particularly, if you look at the Middle 
East- the operations are done on a larger 
scale. There are fewer plants but with 
larger capacities when compared to India 
which has a large number of medium and 
smaller sized plants and enterprises.”
The company’s petrochemical complexes 
in the Middle East are larger than the 
Reliance Industries facility, which is said 
to be the largest one in Asia. He concludes 
by saying that the scale of operation is 
much wider on an international level 
with a team of managers respectively 
in Africa and the Middle East but there’s 
also a close connection.
Key areas of focus in the next 12-18 
months
Customer service has always been 
the focal point for most companies. 
Mr. Padmanabhan asks, what does a 
customer need in the current scenario? 
Service and support are a gradual 
process however, customer service has 
always been an area that Alfa Laval 
focuses on, he insists. In that prospect, 
they increased their service presence 
by getting a lot of qualified engineers 
on board and upgrade their technical 
expertise.
 
 “We moved our service team of engineers 
closer to our customer bases instead 
of keeping them in our regional offices. 
The intent was to be able to respond to 
our customers sooner. Each engineer 
is assigned an area of around 200 km 
radius from their location so that they 
can effortlessly reach the customers and 
solve the issue quickly. Depending upon 
the need of the hour, the engineer would 
be travelling either daily or weekly. We 
need to take care of our people, that’s 
what we believe in.”
Today, during the covid-19 scenario, 
the company is on a journey towards 
digitalization, but Mr. Padmanabhan 
says that this has accelerated it. The focus 
for the next one and a half years is to increase 
the digitalization in the service offered by the 
company. He calls it ‘connected services’.
 “In connected services, there would be two 
divisions. The first one would be a virtual 
reality experience for the customer where 
they can see the product and be advised to go 
through troubleshooting and maintenance 
of our equipment by contacting our office. 
The issue can easily be resolved in 1-2 hours 
without travelling to the location. It saves 
a huge cost and overcomes the current 
travelling restrictions. This is the first half.
The second part of the connected services has 
already started. We deliver equipment with 
necessary features in corporate equipment 
so that we can connect the equipment and 
monitor it remotely. This is called predictive 
maintenance wherein we are not only 
maintaining the equipment but also ensuring 
its constant performance.”
The ongoing pandemic has put digitalization 
on a pedestal and changed the way companies 
are interacting with customers. The same goes 
for Alfa Laval, according to Mr. Padmnabhan 
who considers this to be a high priority.
 “Digitalization doesn’t mean just bringing in 
technology, it is a change in the way we work. 
Its a transformation. The advantage we have 
as an engineering company is that we also 
have a sales team who sell our products. A big 
step would be the transformation of sales and 
service into digitalization.” 
Keeping ahead in the market
The company spends a huge sum of money on 
research and development, according to Dr 
Padmanabhan. R&D is done at a group level. 
He says that almost half of their revenue 
goes into this field. The company had recently 
launched new products both in India and 
internationally.
 “We are introducing new technology and 
markets here. But in reality,  our competition, 
people whom I would consider as our 
competition which is necessary they are also 
not keeping quiet. So what differentiates us 
from other competitors? We are continuously 
working on the competence of our people. 
Our people of service or sales are actually 
like partners to our customers. They are 
trained to understand the requirements of 
the customers and they work with them very 
closely. If I look at the purpose of Alfa Laval, 
we are submitted to creating better everyday 
conditions for our people and helping our 
customers become more productive, more 
energy-efficient and more competent in their 
business. “
Self-sustainability is another core value of 
this corporation. Mr Padmanabhan explains 
that as a core value, they have certain ways in 
which they utilise energy to manufacture or 
shipment of a product. Most of their products 
are offered as a technology and solution where 
they produce the requirement and deliver it.
This decreases the overall energy and water 
consumption in the industry. “That is what we 
are valued for,” he says. 
Industries in which these technologies are 
used include the sugarcane industry wherein 
the company supplies the equipment for 
the sugar processing plants. As sugarcane 
is one of the largest consumers of water, it 
is not recommended to be grown in parts 
of the country. However, the company’s 
high performing system allows the water to 
be recycled, thereby directly contributing 
to sustainability. Similarly, the company 
supplies equipment for dewatering sludge 
and wastewater management. The equipment 
used to dewater sludge known as decanters 
are processed in these plants. Alfa Laval is 
the largest manufacturer of this particular 
equipment in the country. Approximately 50% 
of what they manufacture is exported across 
the world.
The company’s brand value
Brand value is extremely important at Alfa 
Laval. Particularly when dealing with certain 
countries, says Dr Padmanabhan. Considering 
Asia, the Middle East and its surrounding 
nations, business ethics is of utmost value in 
keeping the brand value high.
 “Your company can have amazing products 
and good solutions but business ethics 
is a necessity. It does not just mean how 
transparent you are, but also how loyal you 
are.
As a company, we don’t walk away from 
products in terms of equipment performance 
and the solutions that we deliver. 
When you work in industries which are 
related to processing, particularly when it is 
natural products, sometimes what you expect 
may or may not be the result as planned. There 
could be differences in what you expected and 
what you may deliver. But with us, there is a 
commitment from the company’s side always 
wherein we deliver the product or project we 
have up taken. We always ensure that it is 
delivered. And that is the history that Alfa 
Laval has and we have been carrying it since 
then. Of course, it is a very old company and 
very strong foundation but I would say it is 
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN INDIA, THE 
MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA

--- PAGE BREAK ---
ENGAGE 
38
37 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
EXECUTIVES IN FOCUS
our commitment to our customers- even 
staying with them if something goes 
wrong and making sure that we fix the 
problem and arrive at a solution, that is 
what has built the trust and confidence 
of our customer base.”
Supplier relationships
With a base that has been in operation 
for the last 80 years, the organization has 
a strong foundation of suppliers.
 “Suppliers are the backbone of what 
we promise, convert and deliver to our 
customers. We outsource a lot of our 
fabrication work and also components 
supply. The good thing is, we have 
nurtured and supplied a strong base in 
India. We work with them very closely 
and listen to them and we work with a 
very strong but not a very large supplier 
base.  These guys can deliver quality 
and also follow the safety, health and 
business procedures. So it is not that we 
move suppliers. We believe in a long term 
relationship with our suppliers.  Our 
suppliers have been working with us for 
many years. That doesn’t mean that we 
don’t evaluate them or challenge them 
or even change them. But we work with 
them very closely. We support them in 
improving their technology, health and 
safety standards. And I would say one 
of our biggest strengths is that we make 
payments on time. Possibly, we have 
one of the best markets out there where 
suppliers are concerned,” he concludes.
Making customer relationships work
Similar 
to 
their 
relationship 
with 
suppliers, many of their customers 
have lasted throughout the years. Dr. 
Padmanabhan says that Mr. Azim Premji, 
well-known Indian industrialist visited 
them recently.
 “We have worked with his father’s family 
before they started their journey into 
the IT industry. That was in India during 
my first stint. Even today we work very 
closely with them. There are quite a few 
customers like JSW, Biocon, etc.”
Reaping 
the 
benefits 
of 
strategic 
partnerships Predictability and quality 
of the product is a direct benefit of 
strong 
relationships 
between 
the 
suppliers and the company, according to 
Dr. Padmanabhan.
 “We don’t waste time in just inspecting 
once we have developed a product. We 
are very sure that quality is maintained. 
This reduces the risk of last-minute 
rejection which will have a big impact 
on the delivery time for our customers. 
That is one strong area and number two 
is the predictability of the costs. You 
won’t have surprises. You know the cost. 
As there is a strong relationship between 
the suppliers and us, they understand 
when the market is in difficulty, in fact 
very evidently during the covid days. 
We as a company were given special 
permissions to run the factories because 
we were supplying equipment to critical 
industries such as pharmaceutical and 
defense.
But then it is very clear that we cannot 
run without our suppliers running. 
Fortunately, they were ready to support 
us and it is that strong bond that helps 
us overall. They are almost like partners 
to us. “
The company has at least 40 to 50 
suppliers who are crucial for its ever-
growing progress.
Key Message to everyone 
A visionary in the manufacturing 
industry, he has been with Alfa Laval 
during its climb up the ladder. His 
message to all during the pandemic is 
to stay together, talk to each other and 
contain it as he expects the pandemic to 
last at least till 2021.
“To our suppliers, I would say we need to 
be together, to understand each of our 
challenges, work and support each other 
to ensure that we don’t stop production. 
That is what our country needs to do”.
His journey has been a topsy turvy one. 
He has seen failure, a lot of it, in his early 
days. He has been a disappointment in the 
yesteryears. And then he has followed it 
up with success at an alarming rate. The 
stuff he has achieved within a short time 
is unimaginable.
If Rohit Sharma’s era can be divided 
into 2 parts, it would be pre 2013 and 
post 2013 era. The pre era would consist 
of a talented batsmen being delivered 
a spoonful of opportunities and still 
failing to rise to the occasion. It wasn’t 
easy for him to break into the team 
which boasted of yesteryear greats. But 
then he got the chances and spilled it at a 
consistent basis. Every time he went out 
of the team, he would deliver some strong 
performances in the domestic tourney 
and be brought back to the national side.
 
Many would’ve thought his exploits in 
the CB series 2008 might have sealed 
the deal for him. However, that wasn’t 
the case. It’s not easy being an in and out 
person in the team. Playing a game with 
the fear of being dropped in the next. 
This in and out process continued until 
another masterstroke decision by M S 
Dhoni changed his career for the better. 
The Captain Cool promoted him as an 
opener, an opportunity which Rohit 
Sharma grabbed with both his hands.  
 
When  Sachin Tendulkar scored 200, 
it took the world apart. While people 
imagined the possibility of someone 
scoring 200 in a game, they would’ve 
never imagined someone going bonkers 
and scoring 264 runs in a game. At most 
grounds, it would be a winning total and 
Rohit Sharma did it all alone. To top that, 
the Sri Lankan innings failed to match 
Rohit’s total in that game.And he didn’t 
do it once, he did it thrice. Though, I’ve 
my own reasons to believe that his 209 
knock against Australia stands right at 
the top.
 
If someone told me in 2011 that Rohit 
Sharma will score 10 hundreds or a 
single double century or a test debut 
century, I would’ve had a better chance of 
believing that ‘the earth is flat’. But this 
is how Rohit Sharma is. Unbelievable. 
His transformation is certainly on par 
with Bruce Wayne’s transformation to 
BATSMAN.
Often Rohit Sharma is criticized for not 
stepping up but if you check on the stats, 
after Virat Kohli, he has been India’s 
most reliable batsman. Talent is surely 
one word he hates, so we’ll use the word 
blessed. The 30 year old batsman is 
blessed with style in his rampage strokes. 
His cricketing shots are so beautiful 
that I can totally imagine bowlers going 
awestruck inspite of being hit out of the 
park. For someone who has proved to be 
an assassin to the bowlers, he’s rightly 
called the HITMAN.
I’ve been following Rohit Sharma since 
the start of his career. While I may have 
not been an admirer in his initial days, 
I’ve been a part of this expedition. It was 
a breathtaking moment as he walked 
out for the toss against Sri Lanka. From 
being a player pushed into the team on 
the basis of his capabilities, to captaining 
the Indian team a decade later, this 
journey has surely been incredible to say 
the least.
WHEN   HITMAN    
HITS
Rohit Sharma

--- PAGE BREAK ---
