ENTERPRISE 
46
45	
	
	
	
ENTERPRISE
Having been part of the sector for more 
than 25 years, Anil Madhok has spent 
much of that time achieving his personal 
goal: experiencing all aspects of the 
industry.
His portfolio includes city hotels, resorts 
across globally, Anil Madhok, now 
Chairman of Hotel Operations, has 
been part of the planning, hiring and 
unveiling of the largest chain integrated 
hotels globally
When the opportunity arose to be part 
of the pre-opening team and build a 
prestigious brand from scratch, Anil 
Madhok grabbed it. It’s a decision that 
has led him on his most significant 
career adventure yet – full of new trials 
and rewards.
 “Developing the hotel from nothing was 
the greatest challenge,” Anil Madhok 
says. “It has also been the most fulfilling 
experience of my entire career.” The 
brand doesn’t have properties elsewhere, 
which mitigated the risk of preconceived 
notions of what the resort would be like 
or what it would offer.
 “Sarovar Hotels  presented the greatest 
opportunity to build a brand from 
ground zero,” he adds. “We had a chance 
to establish all our operating procedures 
and guest experiences with world class 
Service standards.”
Since its opening, the beautiful located 
properties has continued to adapt and 
change its business model to align with 
the newest strengths. “We’re a fast-paced 
business and differ from a traditional 
hotel,” Anil Madhok says.
 “In the integrated resort and hotel 
environment, you have the opportunity 
to do both significant and small changes 
on a weekly, monthly and annual basis.” 
Following its ethos of endless adaptation, 
Sarovar is looking to open additional 
services for customer satisfaction.
 “We’re aiming to continue to grow and 
diversify our business to suit the needs of 
every single traveller who comes to our 
Hotel,” Anil Madhok says. In recognition 
of the resort’s grandeur, Sarovar Hotels 
won number of appreciations and 
awards
 “This is the Oscar in the hospitality 
industry,” Anil Madhok enthuses. He 
further notes that providing exceptional 
guest experiences has been part of the 
property’s DNA from the beginning. 
“That motto has become the driving 
motivator behind every single day,” he 
says.
 “That has made us successful so far and 
will be the key to our future growth.” 
To achieve such a high level of guest 
experience, Sarovar provides training to 
all staff members.
 “We have fantastic training programs 
for team members,” Anil says. The resort 
also organizes staff motivational events 
that lead to creating better morale within 
the organization.
 “It’s important to ensure that our 
employees are empowered to perform 
their tasks and that they have the tools 
to execute their job. People are the most 
important asset of our company. We have 
a biggest chain in the country; however, 
the heart and soul are our employees.”
The aim of every resort is for people to 
spend time together – something that 
isn’t advised in the climate of COVID-19. 
So Sarovar has had to adapt to the 
current situation. “Our priority is to go 
through this time together,” Sarovar 
Says “It’s to ensure the wellbeing of staff 
and to make sure that we support them 
and their families.” During these months, 
the property temporarily ceased all 
CUSTOMER
CENTRIC
Words by: The Executives India
Passion is what influenced Anil Madhok to enter hospitality. However, it is his genuine love of people 
that is behind his ongoing drive for success.
Dr. Anil Madhok
(Chairman)
Sarovar Hotels & Resorts

--- PAGE BREAK ---
ENLIGHTENMENT 
48
47	
	
	
	
ENTERPRISE
operations 
until 
further 
notice 
to 
support the Indian government.
Our business model is adapting to social 
distancing to ensure the safety and 
security of our team and all our guests,” 
he says. “We will continue to adjust our 
business to the current environment and 
we will do our best to adapt to these new 
changes.. That’s all we can do.”
Anil leads his team with the same 
honesty, a virtue that he says is vital in 
every business, especially in hospitality. 
“You have to practice integrity daily,” he 
says. “You have to be able to teach it to 
hundreds of people. It’s everything.”
While on the subject of leadership, 
Anil shares that he’s a  firm believer in 
empowering people through guidance 
and mentorship. “We try to build people 
up so that they’re not scared of making 
mistakes,” he says.
Anil also surrounds himself with people 
who genuinely care about the sector. 
“We’re in the people industry. You cannot 
be successful if you don’t like people. 
My leadership viewpoint is to focus on 
developing, motivating and pushing 
people to be their best. I deal with every 
single person as an individual.” We have a 
fantastic strong relationship with all the 
suppliers 
Sarovar is a technologically advanced 
and environmentally friendly property,” 
he confirms. “When you have a hotel 
and  resort like Sarovar, you have a huge 
impact on the environment. But you can 
also make a substantial positive impact.”
 “The biggest challenge is in making sure 
we take care of nature even better,” Anil 
notes. “There is currently a big push 
happening in India to ensure businesses 
across all areas have an environmentally 
friendly policy. I’m pleased about where 
we stand right now.”
Artificial Intelligence, or AI, has already 
received a lot of buzz in recent years, 
but it continues to be a trend to watch 
because its effects on how we live, work, 
and play are only in the early stages. In 
addition, other branches of AI have 
developed, including Machine Learning, 
which we will go into below. AI refers to 
computer systems built to mimic human 
intelligence and perform tasks such as 
recognition of images, speech or patterns, 
and decision making. AI can do these 
tasks faster and more accurately than 
humans.
Five out of six Americans use AI services 
in one form or another every day, 
including navigation apps, streaming 
services, 
Smartphone 
personal 
assistants, 
ride-sharing 
apps, 
home 
personal assistants, and smart home 
devices. In addition to consumer use, 
AI is used to schedule trains, assess 
business risk, predict maintenance, and 
improve energy efficiency, among many 
other money-saving tasks.
AI is one part of what we refer to broadly 
as automation, and automation is a 
hot topic because of potential job loss. 
Experts say automation will eliminate 
73 million more jobs by 2030. However, 
automation is creating jobs as well as 
eliminating them, especially in the field 
of AI: Pundits predict that jobs in AI will 
number 23 million by 2020. Jobs will be 
created in development, programming, 
testing, 
support, 
and 
maintenance, 
to name a few. Artificial Intelligence 
architect is one such job. Some say it 
will soon rival data scientists in need 
of skilled professionals. To learn more 
about potential jobs in AI, read about 
building a career in AI, or why you should 
earn an AI certification.
CYBERSECURITY
Cybersecurity might not seem like 
emerging technology, given that it has 
been around for a while, but it is evolving 
just as other technologies are. That’s 
in part because threats are constantly 
new. The malevolent hackers who are 
trying to illegally access data are not 
going to give up any time soon, and 
they will continue to find ways to get 
through even the toughest security 
measures. It’s also in part because new 
technology is being adapted to enhance 
security. As long as we have hackers, we 
will have cyber security as an emerging 
technology because it will constantly 
evolve to defend against those hackers.
As proof of the strong need for 
Cybersecurity professionals, the number 
of cyber security jobs is growing three 
times faster than other tech jobs. 
However, we’re falling short when it 
comes to filling those jobs. As a result, it’s 
predicted that we will have 3.5 million 
unfilled Cybersecurity jobs by 2021.
Many cybersecurity jobs pay six-figure 
incomes, and roles can range from the 
ethical hacker to security engineer 
to Chief Security Officer, offering a 
promising career path for someone who 
wants to get into and stick with this 
domain.
 Artificial Intelligence 
(AI)

--- PAGE BREAK ---
