27 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
EXECUTIVES IN FOCUS
EXECUTIVES IN FOCUS 		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   28
With its presence in Mumbai, Chennai, 
Hyderabad and Bangalore, and a bedding 
capacity of over 2000, the multi-specialty 
group of hospitals also offers tertiary 
and quaternary healthcare services. 
Dr. Vivek Talulikar, CEO of Gleneagles 
Global Hospitals gave us a first-hand view 
of its progression and breakthrough as 
one of the leading multi-organ transplant 
hospitals in the country. 
Before coming to Global Hospitals, Dr. 
Vivek was the Executive Officer and Chief 
Operating Officer of Sterling Hospitals, 
which has 6 hospitals, including two 
cancer hospitals and four multi-specialty 
hospitals spanning across Gujarat. When 
asked why he made the shift to Global 
hospitals, he said that he considered the 
role quite challenging compared to his 
previous role where he had been COO for 
the last 7 years. 
 “Global Hospitals was a big change 
for me from Ahmadabad to Mumbai. 
Heading a hospital in a metropolis is a 
different challenge altogether. I already 
knew that Global hospitals was a 
transplant dedicated hospital being very 
well known for its transplant operations. 
When I came here the hospital already 
had a solid foundation and I think it 
was also one of the busiest transplant 
operating units in the city and western 
India. The first thing I felt was that the 
foundation was good enough so we could 
start something new.” 
Global hospitals were already known for 
their liver and kidney transplants back 
then. Dr. Vivek had a clear goal in mind 
to expand the hospital’s portfolio and 
was able to bring in a lung transplant 
team successfully within the first 
three months of his undertaking of the 
hospital as CEO. 
The first lung transplant in Mumbai and 
western India took place in Gleneagles 
Global Hospitals in 2019. 
Since then, they have successfully 
conducted around 14 lung transplants, 
he says, till the pandemic slowed down 
their progression in March. 
 “It was a new edition of organ transplants 
to our hospital services  and it was 
something that this part of the country 
did not have access to. People used to go 
to Chennai for this and now it has been 
made available over here as well. Apart 
from this, we also do heart transplants 
by then and so it kind of became a multi-
organ transplant centre doing all sorts of 
transplants in Mumbai.” 
During May of 2019, the hospital started 
a Pediatric Liver Transplant program for 
children. Previously they had been more 
focused on the liver program for adults, 
however, this new venture garnered a lot 
of attention he says, with 13 successful 
transplants amongst which the last 
three surgeries took place between May 
and June.
 “Despite the ongoing pandemic, we were 
allowed to continue the pediatric liver 
transplant operations considering it 
was an emergency surgery for children. 
Thinking back to it, the existing 
lung transplant program, adult liver 
transplant program and the current 
pediatric liver transplant venture was 
great for the positioning of our hospital 
in the city. As of The first lung transplant 
in Mumbai and western India took place 
in Gleneagles Global Hospitals in 2019.
Since then, they have successfully 
conducted around 14 lung transplants, 
he says, till the pandemic slowed down 
their progression in March.
 “It was a new edition of organ transplants 
to our hospital services  and it was 
something that this part of the country 
did not have access to. People used to go 
Touched by 
transplants : 
The gift of Life
Words by : The Executives India
Pioneering itself in multi-transplant operations in the country, Global Gleneagles Hospitals 
has come a long way from its initial establishment.
Dr. Vivek Talulikat
(CEO)
Global Gleneagles Hospitals

--- PAGE BREAK ---
29 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
EXECUTIVES IN FOCUS
EXECUTIVES IN FOCUS 		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   30
to Chennai for this and now it has been 
made available over here as well. Apart 
from this, we also do heart transplants 
by then and so it kind of became a multi-
organ transplant centre doing all sorts of 
transplants in Mumbai.”
During May of 2019, the hospital started 
a Pediatric Liver Transplant program for 
children. Previously they had been more 
focused on the liver program for adults, 
however, this new venture garnered a lot 
of attention he says, with 13 successful 
transplants amongst which the last 
three surgeries took place between May 
and June.
 “Despite the ongoing pandemic, we were 
allowed to continue the pediatric liver 
transplant operations considering it 
was an emergency surgery for children. 
Thinking back to it, the existing 
lung transplant program, adult liver 
transplant program and the current 
pediatric liver transplant venture was 
great for the positioning of our hospital 
in the city. As of today, we are known as a 
preeminent transplant centre and doing 
the highest number of liver transplant 
operations in India and the only 
transplant centre doing lung transplants 
in this part of the country since last 
December. ”
He also mentions that they were the 
second hospital in Mumbai to add a 
pancreatic transplant team in their 
hospital. He concludes saying that the 
transplant program has lots of potentials 
and considers himself lucky to be part 
of its progress. Besides the transplant 
programs, when asked about his other 
ventures, the CEO had an effortless 
response,
 “Apart from transplants, I think that 
one of the things I could successfully do 
over here is to establish a pre-eminence 
for the hospital as a centre known for 
critical care. The city hospital capacity is 
around 56 beds in the ICU and we could 
convert the beds and drive business 
out of it because we started getting 
preeminence in the city. There were a lot 
of good cases giving us recognition, and 
I had to ensure that these case stories 
were put out to position ourselves in the 
centre of referral for critical care and 
emergencies. We can help because now 
during corona virus pandemic times, we 
have one of the lowest mortality rates in 
the city,” he states confidently.
Giving credit to his critical care team, 
he says that they were the only ones 
working in the hospital when the 
pandemic started. The critical care team 
stood by like a rock, he says, to ensure 
that they could come out on top with 
successful stories of patients coming 
out of the ICU and ventilator which he 
mentions, was a huge fear especially in 
the beginning of the lockdown.
 “When you are put on the ventilator 
there is a huge chance that you will 
lose your life. We’ve had 16 mortalities 
so far out of 500 covid-19 patients who 
were put on the ventilators. But the 
fact that you could see that ventilated 
patients including elderly people who 
were getting out of the ventilator and 
going back home- now that was a sight 
you could see. That’s another thing I 
think has been great for me. I focused 
on critical care and it worked right in 
time during the pandemic. We were well 
prepared for it when it came.”
When asked what was the next specialty 
the hospital would concentrate on, his 
answer was neurology stating that a 
top neurologist, Dr. Shirish had joined 
their team last year before the start 
of the pandemic. Dr Shirish M Hastak 
is the President of the Indian Strokes 
Association and the Mumbai Stroke 
Society. Admitting that the neurology 
department is still in a nascent stage, 
the CEO states that there are a lot of 
interventions in their stroke work which 
has allowed them to recover patients 
who approached the hospital within the 
four-hour time frame and immediately 
undergone surgery.
Interestingly, the company’s growth 
plans within the next five to six years 
seem to be leaning towards oncology. 
 “The growth I perceive for the company 
is to get into oncology. That is the only 
specialty that is missing in our centre. 
We’ve come across all kinds of transplants 
including buccal transplants, the only 
thing which is missing is for oncology. 
We do surgical oncology and medical 
oncology but radiation is a missing piece 
and if you understand oncology well, 
then you would know that a patient 
gets an all-round treatment when he 
comes for oncology. But in the absence 
of radiation therapy in our hospital, we 
are not able to go fully strong in this 
department. Our location is just 800 
meters away from Tata hospital. Being so 
close to a premier institute in the country 
and not being able to provide treatment 
in this is something that I’ve always 
had a feeling to change and our board 
has decided to move on with this once 
everything settles down a bit during this 
pandemic. Our hospital has 16 floors out 
of which 13 are functional at present. We 
are hoping to fill up the floors with this 
venture to mix up medical, radiation and 
surgical oncology. This way we will have 
come across everything that is in the 
modern medical field as of today.”
The company seems keen on investing in 
oncology in the next two to three years 
and hopes to be full-fledged in it by then.
What sets us apart from the rest
Gleneagles Global Hospitals has always 
been a strong player in the healthcare 
industry. It is considered to be a premier 
institute in terms of its hospitality, 
clinical stewardship in its transplant 
operations, critical care and even in 
out of the common specialties such as 
nephrology, hepatology, etc. Dr. Vivek 
says that the hospital is quite known 
in its circles for its outstanding patient 
service.
 “Our ratings on Google are at 4.6 today. 
Which is a clear indicator of standards 
in terms of our service. The focus has 
always been in providing the best of 
clinicians, the best of clinical care to 
the patients, along with the medical and 
nursing team. Whereas a backend team 
offers support for other operations such 
as housekeeping, patient care services 
team, etc. The aim is to provide service 
related choices to the patient and the 
attendant so that we can provide an 
overall holistic care experience. “
The 
company 
realized 
that 
most 
hospitals either concentrate on clinical 
or non-clinical care. There was always 
a huge lack of focus in the service-
related sector. The CEO knew that they 
were already on par with the clinical 
standards of patient care due to their 
exceptional team of notable doctors. 
However, service quality was not well 
defined. And so, from a 4.1 rating on 
Google back in 2019, the hospital was 
able to push itself to 4.6. A remarkable 
advancement indeed!
 ``Google is a third-party rating system. 
At the time of discharge, our team 
feedback is good or bad we would be 
rated on a third-party platform. We 
have consistently moved up the ladder 
in the past one year. And today at 4.6, I 
would say if we compare with any other 
hospital in Mumbai, we are one of the best. I 
constantly try to know where we stand in 
the market and when I see hospitals of this 
big size, we are one of those which have the 
highest rating for 4.6. It just proves that our 
operational team is doing well.”
The team concentrated on specific areas 
which were crucial to the patient such as the 
discharge process wherein the patient gets 
discharged as quickly as anticipated, once the 
doctor has given them the green signal.
 “We do know that certain things are not in 
our hands especially with insurance and 
corporate patients where we wait for approval 
from third parties. Nowadays we have started 
setting the expectations quicker in advance. 
So we tell the patient about the status of their 
approval and how much time it usually takes 
to be discharged. So by this, we are at least 
able to manage the patient’s expectations. So 
the discharge process is a big thing that we 
have focused on to bring the time spent on it 
down as much as possible. “
Unlocking values with vendor relationships
Gleneagles Global Hospitals is a part of a 
larger group called Parkway Pantai, a fully 
owned subsidiary of IHH Healthcare. The 
hospital in Mumbai acts as a part of the larger 
group. Most of the vendor engagement is done 
at the corporate level according to Dr Vivek 
Talulikar.
 “The corporate team handles the vendors 
from the backend and they do rate contracts, 
while we do the negotiations. And I would say 
our job at this level would be to maintain the 
relationship with the vendors as well as make 
sure timely payouts are done. There were 
times before the pandemic when we have had 
to do transplants at every time of the day and 
night. We were constantly connected with 
our vendors and suppliers for equipment and 
for even transporting organs at emergency 
times and very short notices. We have even 
harvested organs as far away as Sholapur 
and brought lungs to Mumbai and implanted 
it in a patient waiting for a transplant at our 
hospital. We have also implanted organs from 
Chennai and brought organs by flight to 
Mumbai and implanted it here.
All this is only possible because of our 
relationship with vendors and their support.
So a lot of our operations are based on direct 
relationships with them and a lot has to be 
done via the corporate team which manages 
the relationships and we as a team directly 
manage the direct personal relationship with 
our vendors.”
Admittedly, things have slowed down in the 
last two months due to a severe crunch of cash 
flow resulting in vendor payments getting 
delayed. However, all of the vendors were 
personally informed about the shortage and 
payment plans and fortunately, most of them 
have supported them during these dire times.
 “Thankfully almost everybody has supported 
us during this time. Even today most vendors 
will ask you to pay in cash before delivering 
the supply because the times are very tough 
today. All materials are hard to get, especially 
the high-end drugs related to corona virus. 
They are very less in quantity and hard to 
find but our vendors have been supplying it to 
our hospital on a phone call. The main aim is 
for the company not to collapse during these 
difficult times. As they say, the ship should 
reach the shore before collapsing.“
With that, he remarks that his job as a CEO is 
to ensure that the hospital continues and they 
sustain this pressure while ensuring that 
everybody stays on the ship without losing 
jobs. 
Insight into their critical suppliers 
Speaking of their key suppliers, there are at 
least 10 critical players who supply around 
70% of their equipment on the purchase and 
supply aspect according to Dr Vivek.
There are also vendors on a contract basis for 
housekeeping, equipment assembly, security, 
laundry, etc., which is very important for the 
hospital to run smoothly without any hiccups. 
Relationships are maintained directly with 
these critical suppliers who also report to the 
Head of their respective department so that 
the workflow does not suffer at any cost.
The Standard of Quality
The corporate team at Gleneagles Global 
Hospitals handles most of their purchase and 
supply chain vendors considering rate and 
quality of the equipment, etc. 
On the contractual side, they have a 
tender process system which mentions 
the requirements, eligibility, criteria and 
expectations from the company’s side to the 
vendors. All the bids pitched in by the vendors 
are reviewed by a tender committee team 
in the corporate team at Hyderabad where 
all the bids are channeled along with being 
presented to respective department leads. 
Global hospitals ensure that the process is 
‘followed to a T’ in Dr Vivek’s words, to ensure 
that the best option and rates are applicable 
for the hospital.
Key Business Message
 “We have reached a stage where the covid-19 
pandemic has created a new normal for all 
of us. With changing times and a changing 
GOOGLE IS A THIRD-PARTY RATING 
SYSTEM

--- PAGE BREAK ---
31 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
EXECUTIVES IN FOCUS
EXECUTIVES IN FOCUS 		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   32
environment, I think healthcare would 
undergo a dramatic change when the 
fear settles down. it would still say that 
there would be a general fear among 
people while entering a hospital. I can 
confidently say that as a hospital we 
have cleared the market in both covid 
and non-covid areas with very clear 
separate entries for both as well as staff 
up to that level. We do not mix anything. 
With the new normal being covid staying 
here for the next 6-12 months. It is not 
going to go away anytime soon. That 
said, the biggest challenge in healthcare 
would be to ensure to the public that 
they should not avoid hospitals for 
their healthcare needs just because of 
covid. I have seen patients in the last 
2-3 weeks who were so late to come that 
they already lost precious time because 
of the fear of the pandemic. There are 
hospitals as of today besides our hospital 
which are functioning and also have 
very clear market between covid and 
non-covid patients. We ensure that the 
transmission of the disease does not 
happen.
 As we are entering a new stage in the 
pandemic a lot of new processes are 
coming up because we as a hospital 
cannot 
afford 
to 
have 
everything 
piled up in a single place believing 
that patients can handle everything. I 
think going forward you will see a lot 
of collaboration between hospitals in 
the city, irrespective of which group or 
organization you belong to help each 
other to at least move forward and 
provide sufficient healthcare to the rest 
of the city. And Mumbai, we have seen 
it being a big hotspot in the country 
and so, we have collaborated with other 
hospitals in the last three months to 
ensure that patients are getting beds and 
the best of service. Going forward a lot of 
public and private partnerships would 
come forward to ensure that healthcare 
would be a big focus for everyone. The 
Covid pandemic has woken all of us.“
• Monika More met with a local train 
accident (gap trap victim) at Ghatkopar, 
on January 11th 2014. There was complete 
amputation of both her hands at the level 
of the proximal forearms. 
• She was taken to a local municipal 
hospital at Ghatkopar primarily and 
later shifted to KEM Hospital, Parel. 
• Her hands could not be replanted due 
to delay in reaching the hospital. The 
amputation stumps were closed and 
partly skin-grafted.
• There was a widespread outrage in the 
media following the accident. Social 
activists protested against the wide gaps 
between the platforms and the train foot 
step.
• Monika was rehabilitated by providing 
her with prosthetic limbs from Ottobock 
company.
• She completed her college education 
with great difficulty and help from her 
family and friends.
• She soon realized that the artificial 
limbs were not of much use. They were 
actually more of a burden for her. It was 
not possible to perform any useful work 
or activity with the prosthesis.
• She would use the prosthesis only 
for social reasons. For performing any 
activity, she would have to remove 
the prosthesis and use her remaining 
amputation stumps.
• Monika and her parents consulted me 
in August 2017. I informed and counseled 
them about Hand Transplantation. She 
was an ideal candidate for the surgery. 
She and her family were willing for the 
surgery.
• They came back in a few months and got 
all the investigations and assessments 
done.
• She was registered with the ZTCC and 
was on the waiting list. Meanwhile the 
family was trying to gather funds for her 
surgery.
• 
Unfortunately, 
in 
January 
2019, 
Monika’s father expired. He had a 
prolonged 
kidney 
disorder 
which 
worsened suddenly.
• The family was still trying to gather 
funds for the surgery.
• Finally, on Thursday, 27th August 2020, 
there was an organ alert from Chennai. 
The donor blood group was O -ve. 
Monika’s blood group was O +ve.
• The transplant coordinator from Global 
Hospital went to Chennai along with a 
blood sample of Monika. 
• The cross-match was done and was 
found to be favorable. The hands were 
harvested and were carried immediately 
by a chartered flight from Chennai to 
Mumbai.
• In the meantime, Monika was admitted 
in the hospital and her blood tests were 
conducted.  
• She was wheeled into the Operation 
theatre at 11.30 pm. General anesthesia 
along with bilateral supraclavicular 
blocks were administered.
• The surgery started at 1 am (on Friday, 
28th August 2020). The surgery was 
completed at 5 pm. Total surgical time 
was 16 hours.
• The patient was stable throughout 
the surgery. She was shifted to the 
transplant ICU for post-operative care 
and monitoring.
• She was extubated on Saturday, 29th 
August 2020, at 2.30 pm. 
• She has been stable in the post-op period. 
The vascularity of the transplanted 
hands is well maintained.
• Total 12 hand transplants have been 
done in India- Bilateral – 11 and Unilateral- 
01. Among 11 bilateral 10 were successful 
and 01 failed. Amruta institute- 7, 
Pondicherry- 2, Chennai- 1, Pune- 1(fail).
• We are not only the first hospital 
in Mumbai but also the only private 
hospital in the country to have done a 
successful Bilateral Hand Transplant. 
This is the 10th bilateral hand transplant 
of the country and all the rest have been 
done in trust or government funded 
hospital / medical colleges.
The Executives
India
For ad enquiries please reach out
www.executivesindia.com - sanjay@executivesindia.com
+91 837 430 5090.
The Executives India Magazine is a print and online publication, 
published quarterly catering to C-suite executive across the Asia.
We publish an inspiring pile of entrepreneurial piece and provides 
detailed analysis across Asia’s diversified marketplace.
We are composed of a superb and professional editorial team that keeps 
our readers up to date with the latest development in the Asian market 
through our one on one interview with the executives, highlighting the 
current event, as well as  featuring articles on leading entrepreneur.

--- PAGE BREAK ---
