 
Mr. Arijit Basu (MD)

--- PAGE BREAK ---
TIDE WATER OIL COMPANY
(INDIA) LTD
Veedol Brand heritage 100 years and counting
Arijit is a Chemistry honours graduate from Kolkata
University and an alumnus of the Indian Institute of
Management Calcutta (IIM-C). Furthermore, he has
done Leadership Development Program at IMD,
Lausanne (Switzerland).
AWARDS & RECOGNITION:
 In 2016 he was felicitated by the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam
Excellence Award for outstanding individual
ACHIEVEMENTS.
There is much to be optimistic about. Great
opportunity exists within the lubricants sector if
players such as Tide can adapt to the evolving needs
of its customers, particularly amid a rapidly changing
mobility landscape. Tide currently has a range of
different products. “We must quickly adapt and
continuously innovate products to meet
the needs of our consumers and the market in
general,”
20

--- PAGE BREAK ---
general,” Basu explains. The retail market is a
specific focus. “We continue to focus on building
stronger brand recognition and increasing market
share in the sector,” he adds.
Despite fierce competition in the national oil
industry, Basu says that the business prospects for
the company are still “very open”. “This is
encouraging us to target lubricant market
development opportunities in the future, supported
by several positive indicators, including the growth
of automotive sales in India and government
investment,” he says. Nevertheless, the
development of the national lubricant market also
faces several increasingly challenging obstacles, he
explains, naming policies promoting battery-based
EV development and the implementation of
biodiesel/B20
biofuel mandates in particular. In addition, some
manufacturers and brands are also re-entering the
Indian market. To address these challenges, we are
pushing for efficient production, optimal marketing,
and sustainable innovation,” he says. “The company
has also designed a growth strategy that focuses on
strengthening core business, winning
21

--- PAGE BREAK ---
back market share, and developing both organic
and inorganic businesses.” He pinpoints
operational excellence and sourcing excellence,
developing green lubricants, leveraging
ecommerce, analytic-based pricing and leveraging
big data to complete service offerings as some of
the touchpoints of this growth plan.
Its digitalization journey started in 2020, and
focuses on “transformation pillars” and “enabler
fundamentals” designed to enhance its processes
and deliver the best products and services to its
industrial customers. It is also working closely with
both customers and suppliers to enhance the
network. This involves building strong
relationships with world class suppliers and world
class manufacturers , which demonstrate how its
products are approved for such quality levels.
Arijit Basu understands the importance of a point
of difference to stand out in a competitive market
and highlights the quality of Tide’s oil as a
significant advantage. “We are fully supported and
have access to the base oil 
22

--- PAGE BREAK ---
to blend our products, better than that of our
competitors, plus we don’t have to worry about
availability,” he stresses. It also complies with
international standards, positioning it well for
expansion. “Even for low-grade products, we still
comply with the international standard,” he adds.
This superlative quality results in happy customers,
a simple formula that Basu is confident will deliver
the targeted growth figures. “We hope the
customer believes in our product and in the end are
loyal after using our product and that they’re
satisfied with the product,” he says. With the
outlook for the industry looking strong, Tide Oil is
perfectly positioned to benefit, with the added
advantages of a powerful group behind it, access to
a high-quality oil and Basu’s own steely
determination to take the business to
the next level. A big challenge for us is constantly
focusing on how we can improve,& Basu says. & We
want to become a world-class organization. We
have to become as efficient as possible. We want to
continue to deliver leading technology and first-
class service to our customers.& We want to ensure
we recruit, motivate and reward our best people. 
23

--- PAGE BREAK ---
This will help us stay ahead of
our competition. Basu says this mindset will stand
Tide Water Oil in good stead even as the market
evolves with the entrance of new players. & We’re
very competitive; we like to win. In the marketplace,
you are competing like a football team. Your
objective is to be the best team out there. We’re
very focused on the team and what the team
needs.& Tide& ambitions to outperform its market
rivals doesn’t detract from a cooperative
atmosphere within the company, Basu says. &
Family is really important to our organization, and
we’re very focused on work–life balance. We value
trust and integrity, and I really believe in leading by
example or ‘walking the talk’. I think the best
leaders today are the ones who lead by example.
24

--- PAGE BREAK ---
Our best wishes to Tide Water Oil Co. (India) Ltd. 
From: 
Dimple Drums And Barrels Private Limited 
Manufacturer of Mild Steel and HDPE Drums 
 
Regd. office: 516, Maker Chambers V, Nariman Point, Mumbai – 400021. 
E-mail ID: marketing@dimpledrums.com / ddbl@mtnl.net.in 
CIN:U21020MH1977PTC020035 
Plant: Gulsunde Village, Rasayani - 410207, Dist: Raigad, Maharashtra. 
Contact Person: Mr. Amit H. Kotadia, Director, Ph:9920422238 
Mr. Bharat Kotadia, Chief Executive, Mktg., Ph:9820804546 
25

--- PAGE BREAK ---
